README.md, before:

# tap-stackoverflow-sampledata

`tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` is a Singer tap for the Stack Overflow xml dump files avaiable at [Archieve.org](https://archive.org/details/stackexchange).  This tap is inteded to be use to test Singer targets and or seed a source system with enough data to sufficently test a source to target pipleline.  

Built with the [Meltano Tap SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com) for Singer Taps.

### Whats New 🛳️🎉
**2024-08-01 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.39.0**

**2024-04-04 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.36.1:**

**2023-12-14 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.34.0:**

**2023-09-18 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.31.1:** Small code improvement.  I am going to start doing versioned releases.

## Installation

You will need to install the tap directly from the GitHub repository.  Here is the command to use

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/BuzzCutNorman/tap-stackoverflow-sampledata.git
```

### Meltano CLI

You can find this tap at [Meltano Hub](https://hub.meltano.com).  Which makes installation a snap.

Add the tap-stackoverflow-sampledata extractor to your project using meltano add :
```bash
meltano add extractor tap-stackoverflow-sampledata
```

## StackOverflow XML files

You will need to download the Stack Overflow files, uzip them, and place then into a directory.  The files are zipped up using 7zip (.7z) so you will need it to complete the unzip step.  Currently this tap will work with these files. 

|File                                                                                 | Zipped Size | Unzipped Size | Rows     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------:|--------------:|---------:|
[Badges](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Badges.7z)      | 342 MB      | 5.28 GB       | 48,022,288
[Comments](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Comments.7z)  | 5.18 GB     | 25.2 GB       | 88,222,951
[PostLinks](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-PostLinks.7z)| 116 MB      | 990 MB        | 8,666,593
[Posts](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Posts.7z)        | 18.5 GB     | 93.9 GB       | 58,329,356
[Tags](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Tags.7z)          | 902 KB      | 5.45 MB       | 64,465
[Users](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Users.7z)        | 683 MB      | 4.78 GB       | 19,942,787
[Votes](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Votes.7z)        | 1.28 GB     | 20.6 GB       | 228,077,281

You can use one, two, or all.  

## Configuration

The only configuration you need to provide is the path of the directory you placed the extracted Stackoverflow file(s) in.


Configure the tap-stackoverflow-sampledata settings using meltano config :
```bash
meltano config tap-stackoverflow-sampledata set --interactive
```

## Settings

| Setting                     | Required | Default | Description |
|:----------------------------|:--------:|:-------:|:------------|
| stackoverflow_data_directory| False    | None    | A path to the StackOverflow XML data files. |
| batch_config                | False    | None    | Optional Batch Message configuration |

### Base Settings
Singer: config.json
```
{
	"stackoverflow_data_directory" : "C:\\Development\\StackOverflow\\"
}
```

Meltano: meltano.yml
```
    config:
      stackoverflow_data_directory: C:\Development\StackOverflow\
```

### Batch Settings
Singer: config.json
```
{
	"stackoverflow_data_directory" : "C:\\Development\\StackOverflow\\".
	"batch_config": {
		"encoding": {
		  "format": "jsonl",
		  "compression": "gzip"
		},
		"storage": {
		  "root": "file://c://development/batches",
		  "prefix": "test-batch-"
		}
	}
}
```

Meltano: meltano.yml
```
  config:
    stackoverflow_data_directory: C:\Development\StackOverflow\
    batch_config:
      encoding:
        format: jsonl
        compression: gzip
      storage:
        root: "file://c://development/batches"
        prefix: test-batch-
```

## Capabilities

* `about`
* `discover`

A full list of supported settings and capabilities is available by running: `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --about`

### Configure using environment variables

This Singer tap will automatically import any environment variables within the working directory's
`.env` if the `--config=ENV` is provided, such that config values will be considered if a matching
environment variable is set either in the terminal context or in the `.env` file.

## Usage

You can easily run `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` by itself or in a pipeline using [Meltano](https://meltano.com/).

### Executing the Tap Directly

```bash
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --version
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --help
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --config CONFIG --discover > ./catalog.json
```

### Initialize your Development Environment

```bash
pipx install poetry
poetry install
```

### Create and Run Tests

Create tests within the `tap_stackoverflow_sampledata/tests` subfolder and
  then run:

```bash
poetry run pytest
```

You can also test the `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` CLI interface directly using `poetry run`:

```bash
poetry run tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --help
```

### Testing with [Meltano](https://www.meltano.com)

_**Note:** This tap will work in any Singer environment and does not require Meltano.
Examples here are for convenience and to streamline end-to-end orchestration scenarios._

Your project comes with a custom `meltano.yml` project file already created. Open the `meltano.yml` and follow any _"TODO"_ items listed in
the file.

Next, install Meltano (if you haven't already) and any needed plugins:

```bash
# Install meltano
pipx install meltano
# Initialize meltano within this directory
cd tap-stackoverflow-sampledata
meltano install
```

Now you can test and orchestrate using Meltano:

```bash
# Test invocation:
meltano invoke tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --version
# OR run a test `elt` pipeline:
meltano run tap-stackoverflow-sampledata target-jsonl
```

### SDK Dev Guide

See the [dev guide](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/dev_guide.html) for more instructions on how to use the SDK to
develop your own taps and targets.

Commit message:

Bump SDK to 0.46.4 (#17)
* update pyproject toml

* uv sync --upgrade

* added vscode debug launch config

* little fixes

* switched to use MsgSpecWriter class

* added test files

* setup sdk basic tap tests

* bump SDK to 0.46.4

* update whats new and info to match sdk and latest file.

* whats new edits

* minor version bump

README.md, after:

# tap-stackoverflow-sampledata

`tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` is a Singer tap for the Stack Overflow xml dump files avaiable at [Archieve.org](https://archive.org/details/stackexchange).  This tap is inteded to be use to test Singer targets and or seed a source system with enough data to sufficently test a source to target pipleline.  

Built with the [Meltano Tap SDK](https://sdk.meltano.com) for Singer Taps.

### Whats New 🛳️🎉
**2024-08-01 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.46.4:**  
Edger at Arch expanded the SDK to have a faster JSON encoder avaiable. I’ve updated tap-stackoverflow-sampledata to use the new MsgSpecReader class, which leverages the lightweight and speedy msgspec. Big Thank You 🙏 to Jim Crist-Harif for creating and maintaining msgspec and Edger for updating the SDK to utlize it! 

**2024-08-01 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.39.0**

**2024-04-04 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.36.1**

**2023-12-14 Upgraded to Meltano Singer-SDK 0.34.0**

## Installation

You will need to install the tap directly from the GitHub repository.  Here is the command to use

```bash
pipx install git+https://github.com/BuzzCutNorman/tap-stackoverflow-sampledata.git
```

### Meltano CLI

You can find this tap at [Meltano Hub](https://hub.meltano.com).  Which makes installation a snap.

Add the tap-stackoverflow-sampledata extractor to your project using meltano add :
```bash
meltano add extractor tap-stackoverflow-sampledata
```

## StackOverflow XML files

You will need to download the Stack Overflow files, uzip them, and place then into a directory.  The files are zipped up using 7zip (.7z) so you will need it to complete the unzip step.  Currently this tap will work with these files. 

|File                                                                                 | Zipped Size | Unzipped Size | Rows     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------:|--------------:|---------:|
[Badges](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Badges.7z)      | 514 MB      | 5.65 GB       | 51,287,627
[Comments](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Comments.7z)  | 6.51 GB     | 23.3 GB       | 90,380,323
[PostLinks](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-PostLinks.7z)| 144 MB      | 768 MB        | 6,552,590
[Posts](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Posts.7z)        | 21.4 GB     | 96.7 GB       | 59,819,048
[Tags](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Tags.7z)          | 1 MB        | 5.56 MB       | 65,675
[Users](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Users.7z)        | 944 MB      | 5.38 GB       | 22,484,235
[Votes](https://archive.org/download/stackexchange/stackoverflow.com-Votes.7z)        | 2.05 GB     | 21.6 GB       | 238,974,011

You can use one, two, or all.  

## Configuration

The only configuration you need to provide is the path of the directory you placed the extracted Stackoverflow file(s) in.


Configure the tap-stackoverflow-sampledata settings using meltano config :
```bash
meltano config tap-stackoverflow-sampledata set --interactive
```

## Settings

| Setting                     | Required | Default | Description |
|:----------------------------|:--------:|:-------:|:------------|
| stackoverflow_data_directory| False    | None    | A path to the StackOverflow XML data files. |
| batch_config                | False    | None    | Optional Batch Message configuration |

### Base Settings
Singer: config.json
```
{
	"stackoverflow_data_directory" : "C:\\Development\\StackOverflow\\"
}
```

Meltano: meltano.yml
```
    config:
      stackoverflow_data_directory: C:\Development\StackOverflow\
```

### Batch Settings
Singer: config.json
```
{
	"stackoverflow_data_directory" : "C:\\Development\\StackOverflow\\".
	"batch_config": {
		"encoding": {
		  "format": "jsonl",
		  "compression": "gzip"
		},
		"storage": {
		  "root": "file://c://development/batches",
		  "prefix": "test-batch-"
		}
	}
}
```

Meltano: meltano.yml
```
  config:
    stackoverflow_data_directory: C:\Development\StackOverflow\
    batch_config:
      encoding:
        format: jsonl
        compression: gzip
      storage:
        root: "file://c://development/batches"
        prefix: test-batch-
```

## Capabilities

* `about`
* `discover`

A full list of supported settings and capabilities is available by running: `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --about`

### Configure using environment variables

This Singer tap will automatically import any environment variables within the working directory's
`.env` if the `--config=ENV` is provided, such that config values will be considered if a matching
environment variable is set either in the terminal context or in the `.env` file.

## Usage

You can easily run `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` by itself or in a pipeline using [Meltano](https://meltano.com/).

### Executing the Tap Directly

```bash
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --version
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --help
tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --config CONFIG --discover > ./catalog.json
```

## Developer Resources

Follow these instructions to contribute to this project.

### Initialize your Development Environment

Prerequisites:

- Python 3.9+
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)

```bash
uv sync
```

### Create and Run Tests

Create tests within the `tests` subfolder and
then run:

```bash
uv run pytest
```

You can also test the `tap-stackoverflow-sampledata` CLI interface directly using `uv run`:

```bash
uv run tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --help
```

### Testing with [Meltano](https://www.meltano.com)

_**Note:** This tap will work in any Singer environment and does not require Meltano.
Examples here are for convenience and to streamline end-to-end orchestration scenarios._

Your project comes with a custom `meltano.yml` project file already created. Open the `meltano.yml` and follow any _"TODO"_ items listed in
the file.

Next, install Meltano (if you haven't already) and any needed plugins:

```bash
# Install meltano
pipx install meltano
# Initialize meltano within this directory
cd tap-stackoverflow-sampledata
meltano install
```

Now you can test and orchestrate using Meltano:

```bash
# Test invocation:
meltano invoke tap-stackoverflow-sampledata --version
# OR run a test `elt` pipeline:
meltano run tap-stackoverflow-sampledata target-jsonl
```

### SDK Dev Guide

See the [dev guide](https://sdk.meltano.com/en/latest/dev_guide.html) for more instructions on how to use the SDK to
develop your own taps and targets.
